# LeiriaPineForest

Pinhal de Leiria is a Portuguese forest. It has an area of 11,080 ha, covering the parishes of Marinha Grande and Vieira de Leiria, thus being uniquely and inserted in the municipality of Marinha Grande. In Portugal, the Leiria pine forest marked the beginning of the intensive monoculture plantation of maritime pine.

The pine forest was initially planted by King D. Afonso III (1248-1279), in the 13th century, to halt the advance and degradation of the dunes, as well as protecting the city of Leiria and its Castle and the agricultural lands of its degradation due to wind-blown sands, which had become a major concern for the region's inhabitants. It would be, then, later, between 1279 and 1325, substantially increased by King D. Denis I, to its current dimensions. The sowing of an extensive area that follows the coast was then proceeded, especially using maritime pine.

Damn wikipedia... I'm responsible for what it is today!!
The Leiria pine forest has beautiful stories that go beyond the animal and plant diversity and the natural beauty formed by the dunes or the Moel stream. Its name as a pine forest in Leiria can be misleading, as it extends mainly through the municipality of Marinha Grande, which once belonged to the municipality of Leiria. The extension of the pine forest of Leiria continued to grow, especially under the order of King D. Denis I, entitled therefore as the «King Farmer» of Portugal. The pine forest is also often called the «King's pine forest» precisely because of the importance that King Denis I had in its development. The policy implemented in this pine forest was that for each tree cut, one was planted.
